Hello, my name is Jay Kaiser and for my capstone project, I am analyzing longitudinal Reddit comment data in an attempt to view and predict political trends.

The outcome of the 2016 Presidential election proved very surprising for many people who could not have predicted the strong following for Republican candidate Donald Trump. However, I posit that evidence for this outcome was actually present during the months (and even years) before the lead-up to the election. Reddit is an online forum frequented by millions of people each week, each of whom had opinions about the candidates and important issues during the election that they are free to express on given subreddits dedicated to that purpose. It is for this reason that I am analyzing the whole of the Reddit corpus, amounting to around 850 GB of pure text data, in the hopes of extracting visible changes in political trends over time.

Currently, I have fully downloaded and parsed the dataset into a smaller, more readable format for future study, segregated by month. From these, I've created user-graphs linking which how many users each pair of subreddits is jointly frequented by, and from these graphs, I have created a means to extracted the most popular 100 subreddits per month for users who post in 'r/politics,' the subreddit dedicated to American politics. These subreddits are further optimized through the use of my own unique metric in isolating and removing what should be considered the most 'default' subreddits that are posted in by all users. It is from these lists of subreddits that I am currently extracting relevant comments from the entire corpus, and on these comments I plan to do frequency and sentiment analysis to discover changes in political sentiment and engagement over time.

At the very least, I'd like to visualize this change over time in my final project through an interactive GUI that allows the user to specify specific metrics, subreddits, and time ranges to allow self-discovery. However, a future goal will be to use trends to possibly predict future election results.

Thanks.